OSDOCS-6264: OVN as Secondary Network GA (#61110)
openshift/openshift-docs: networking/multiple_networks/configuring-additional-network.adoc

You can create an `NodeNetworkConfigurationPolicy` object, part of the `nmstate.io/v1` API group, to declaratively create the mapping. This API is provided by the NMState Operator. By using this API, you can apply the bridge mapping to nodes that match the `nodeSelector` that you specify, such as `node-role.kubernetes.io/worker: ''` to apply to all worker nodes in your cluster.

When attaching an additional network, you can either use the existing `br-ex` bridge or create a new bridge. Which approach to use depends on your specific network infrastructure.

- If your nodes include only a single network interface, you must use the existing bridge. This network interface is owned and managed by OVN-Kubernetes and you must not remove it from the `br-ex` bridge or alter the interface configuration, or your cluster network will stop working correctly.
- If your nodes include several network interfaces, you attach a different network interface to a new bridge, and use that for your additional network. This approach provides for traffic isolation from your primary cluster network.

> In the following example, the `physnet1` additional network is attached to the `ovsbr1`. Through this attachment, the additional network is available to the OVN-Kubernetes network plugin as an additional network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following example, the `physnet1` additional network is attached to the `br-ex`. Through this attachment, the additional network is available to the OVN-Kubernetes network plugin as an additional network.
```

Right ? The following example is about sharing the bridge.

.Example mapping for sharing a bridge
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: nmstate.io/v1
kind: NodeNetworkConfigurationPolicy
metadata:
  name: mapping <1>
spec:
  nodeSelector:
    node-role.kubernetes.io/worker: '' <2>
  desiredState:
    ovn:
      bridge-mappings:

>       - localnet: physnet1 <3>

Reviewer: we probably should highlight this **must match** the name of the network in the NAD (nad.spec.config.name).

<3> The name for the network interface.
<4> The name of the bridge on the node. This value is required only if you specify `state: present`.
<5> The state for the mapping. Must be either `present` to add the bridge or `absent` to remove the bridge. The default value is `present`.

// TODO - fix
In the following example, the `physnet1` network interface is attached to the `ovsbr1` bridge. Through this attachment, the network interface is available to the OVN-Kubernetes network plugin as an additional network.

.Example mapping for nodes with multiple interfaces
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: nmstate.io/v1
kind: NodeNetworkConfigurationPolicy
metadata:
  name: ovs-br1-multiple-networks
  nodeSelector:
    node-role.kubernetes.io/worker: '' <1>
spec:
  desiredState:
    interfaces:
    - name: ovsbr1
      description: Dedicated OVS bridge with eth1 as a port allowing all VLANs and untagged traffic through
      type: ovs-bridge
      state: up
      bridge:
        options:
          stp: true
        port:
        - name: eth1 <2> # <name of the node interface>
    ovn:
      bridge-mappings:

>       - localnet: physnet2 <3>

Reviewer: we probably should highlight this must match the name of the network in the NAD (nad.spec.config.name).

* For more information about enabling an SELinux boolean on a node, see xref:../../nodes/nodes/nodes-nodes-managing.adoc#nodes-nodes-working-setting-booleans_nodes-nodes-managing[Setting SELinux booleans]

// Set of includes pertains to OVN-Kubernetes additional network
include::modules/configuring-ovnk-additional-networks.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

[id="{context}_configuration-additional-network-types-supported-platforms"]
==== Supported platforms for OVN-Kubernetes additional network

You can use an OVN-Kubernetes additional network with the following supported platforms:

- Bare metal
- {ibmpowerProductName}
- {ibmzProductName}
- {linuxoneProductName}
- VMware vSphere
- {rh-openstack-first}

// Workaround lack of xref in modules
[id="{context}_configuration-additional-network-types-prerequisites"]
==== Prerequisites for configuring OVN-Kubernetes additional network

- Install NMstate Operator. For more information, see xref:../../networking/k8s_nmstate/k8s-nmstate-about-the-k8s-nmstate-operator.adoc#k8s-nmstate-about-the-k8s-nmstate-operator[About the Kubernetes NMState Operator]

[id="{context}_configuration-additional-network-interface"]

> ==== Configuration for an OVN-Kubernetes additional network mapping

Reviewer: these sections are only required for the localnet topology. Meaning `layer2` topologies do not require any of this.

I think the user can misunderstand and think this is always required.

    ovn:
      bridge-mappings:
      - localnet: localnet1 <3>
        bridge: br-ex <4>
        state: present <5>
----
<1> The name for the configuration object.
<2> A node selector that specifies the nodes to apply the node network configuration policy to.
<3> The name for the additional network from which traffic is forwarded to the OVS bridge. This additional network must match the name of the `metadata.name` field of the `NetworkAttachmentDefinition` object that defines the OVN-Kubernetes additional network.
<4> The name of the OVS bridge on the node. This value is required only if you specify `state: present`.
<5> The state for the mapping. Must be either `present` to add the bridge or `absent` to remove the bridge. The default value is `present`.

In the following example, the `localnet2` network interface is attached to the `ovs-br1` bridge: Through this attachment, the network interface is available to the OVN-Kubernetes network plugin as an additional network.

.Example mapping for nodes with multiple interfaces
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: nmstate.io/v1
kind: NodeNetworkConfigurationPolicy
metadata:
  name: ovs-br1-multiple-networks <1>
  nodeSelector:

>     node-role.kubernetes.io/worker: '' <2>

Reviewer: shouldn't this be in the `spec` ? The other yaml (sharing br-ex) is correct.

Author: @maiqueb, yes, it should!

include::modules/configuring-ovnk-additional-networks.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

[id="{context}_configuration-additional-network-types-supported-platforms"]
==== Supported platforms for OVN-Kubernetes additional network

You can use an OVN-Kubernetes additional network with the following supported platforms:

- bare-metal
- {ibmpowerProductName}
- {ibmzProductName}
- {linuxoneProductName}
- VMware vSphere
- {rh-openstack}

// Workaround lack of xref in modules
[id="{context}_configuration-additional-network-types-prerequisites"]
==== Prerequisites for configuring OVN-Kubernetes additional network

- Install NMstate Operator. For more information, see xref:../../networking/k8s_nmstate/k8s-nmstate-about-the-k8s-nmstate-operator.adoc#"k8s-nmstate-about-the-k8s-nmstate-operator[About the Kubernetes NMState Operator]

[id="{context}_configuration-additional-network-interface"]
==== Configuration for an OVN-Kubernetes additional network mapping

You must map the additional network to the OVN bridge to use it as an OVN-Kubernetes additional network. You can create an `NodeNetworkConfigurationPolicy` object, part of the `nmstate.io/v1` API, to declaratively create the mapping.

> The network-admin would provision the following NNCP (nmstate policy object) to add a mapping from the network with name `localnet-network` to the `ovsbr1`:

Reviewer: I feel this example should be as concise as possible, but also correct. 

For that, I would represent the scenario where the `br-ex` OVS bridge is shared. Thus, please use br-ex here, and in the example below.

> .Example bridge mapping

Reviewer: I would rename this to `Example bridge mapping - sharing the bridge`. 

This scenario is the **only** possibility when the cluster nodes have a **single** network interface. I.e. that interface must be shared between the cluster default network, and all the secondaries.

> In the following example, the `localnet-network` additional network is attached to the `ovsbr1`. Through this attachment, the additional network is available to the OVN-Kubernetes network plugin as an additional network.

Reviewer: I think these statements are too vague. I mean, it's generic enough to understand, but I think the reader needs to understand **why** this is needed.

If that makes sense for your (in context of our docs), you could maybe get some inspiration from [this openstack doc](https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_openstack_platform/16.0/html/networking_guide/bridge-mappings) .

IMO these sentences (copied from the doc) are helpful - and don't go into details:
> Bridge mappings allow provider network traffic to reach the physical network.

> A bridge mapping associates a physical network name (an interface label) to a bridge created with OVS or OVN.

Finally, there's another reason why using the NNCP is a good call: you would need to do this on **all** worker nodes in the cluster. If you use a policy, you just apply it, and kubernetes-nmstate takes care of that for you.

Author: @maiqueb, I'm hampered by the fact that this is what I'd considered advanced networking, and my networking background is not deep enough to fully elucidate the particulars of what this feature actually does for a customer.

I'll look at the OpenStack link, thanks!

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: nmstate.io/v1
kind: NodeNetworkConfigurationPolicy
metadata:
  name: mapping <1>
spec:
  desiredState:
    ovn:
      bridge-mappings:
      - localnet: localnet-network <2>
        bridge: ovsbr1 <3>

>         state: present <4>

Reviewer: these 2 values are tricky. Well ... They're simple, but optional, depending on the situation.

The `bridge` is **optional** when **deleting** - i.e. if state == absent => bridge is optional.

Also, the `state` attribute **defaults** to  present.

>         state: present <4>

Reviewer: maybe also use a label selector targeting only node worker roles ? 

I think that's more complete.

It would look like:

```yaml
apiVersion: nmstate.io/v1
kind: NodeNetworkConfigurationPolicy
metadata:
  name: mapping <1>
spec: 
  nodeSelector:
    node-role.kubernetes.io/worker: ''
  desiredState:
    ovn:
      bridge-mappings:
      - localnet: localnet-network <2>
        bridge: ovsbr1 <3>
        state: present <4>
```

You'd probably need to add a `procedure` entry explaining why we're adding the selector .

  desiredState:
    ovn:
      bridge-mappings:
      - localnet: localnet1 <3>
        bridge: br-ex <4>
        state: present <5>
----
<1> The name for the configuration object.
<2> A node selector that specifies the nodes to apply the node network configuration policy to.

> <3> The name for the additional network from which traffic is forwarded to the OVS bridge. This additional network must match the name of the additional network that you define in the `netAttachDefName` field of a `NetworkAttachmentDefinition` object.

Reviewer: this is wrong; it must match - verbatim - the value of the `name` field of a `NetworkAttachmentDefinition` object instead. Not the `netAttachDefName`.

----
<1> The name for the configuration object.
<2> A node selector that specifies the nodes to apply the node network configuration policy to.

> <3> The name for the additional network from which traffic is forwarded to the OVS bridge. This additional network must match the name of the `metadata.name` field of the `NetworkAttachmentDefinition` object that defines the OVN-Kubernetes additional network.

Reviewer: this is wrong, it's not the `metadata.name` attribute it must match - it is the `spec.config.name` attribute.

Author: @maiqueb, that makes a lot more sense; Not sure why this is causing me such trouble. I'll update these instances, thanks!

<2> A node selector that specifies the nodes to apply the node network configuration policy to.
<3> A new OVS bridge, separate from the default bridge used by OVN-Kubernetes for all cluster traffic.
<4> A network device on the host system to associate with this new OVS bridge.

> <5> The name for the additional network from which traffic is forwarded to the OVS bridge. This additional network must match the name of the `metadata.name` field of the `NetworkAttachmentDefinition` object that defines the OVN-Kubernetes additional network.

Reviewer: ditto; this is wrong, it's not the metadata.name attribute it must match - it is the spec.config.name attribute.
